The following is a conversation with Elon Musk, his fourth time on this, the Lex Friedman podcast. I thought you were going to finish it. It's one of the greatest themes in all film history. Yeah, that's great. So I was just thinking about the Roman Empire as one does. Does that whole meme where all guys are thinking about the Roman Empire at least once a day? And half the population is confused whether it's true or not. But more seriously, thinking about the wars going on in the world today. And as you know, war and military conquest has been a big part of Roman society and culture and it I think has been a big part of most empires and dynasties throughout human history. So yeah, they usually came as a result of conquest. I mean, there's something like the Orchardangarian Empire where there was just a lot of sort of clever marriages. But fundamentally, there's an engine of conquest and they celebrate excellence in warfare. Many of the leaders were excellent generals. Yeah, that kind of thing. So a big picture question, Groc approved. I asked this is a good question to ask. Did you test it Groc approved? At least on fun mode. To what degree do you think war is part of human nature versus a consequence of how human societies are structured? I asked this as you have somehow controversially been a proponent of peace. I'm generally a proponent of peace. I mean, ignorance is perhaps, in my view, the real enemy to counter it. That's the real hard part, not, you know, fighting other humans. But all creatures fight. I mean, the jungle is like, you look at the, you'll think of this nature as perhaps some sort of peaceful thing, but in fact, it is not. There's some quite funny, when a hot dog thing where he's like in the jungle, like saying that it's like basically just murder and death in every direction. I mean, the plant animals in the jungle are constantly trying to kill each other every single day, every minute. So it's not like, you know, we're unusual in their respect. There's a relevant question here whether with greater intelligence comes greater control over these base instincts for violence. Yes, we have much more of an ability to control our limbic instinct for violence than say chimpanzee. And in fact, if one looks to say chimpanzee society, it is not friendly. I mean, the bonobos are an exception, but chimpanzee society is full of violence and it's quite, quite horrific, frankly, that that's our limbic system in action. Like, you know, I'll be on the wrong side of a chimpanzee. You'll eat your face off and tear and not so. Yeah, basically, there's no limits or ethics or there almost had just war. There's no just war in chimpanzee societies. It's war and dominance by any means necessary. Yeah, chimpanzee society is a part like a primitive version of human society. They're not like peace loving, basically, at all. There's extreme violence. And then once in a while, some somebody who's watched too many Disney movies decides to raise chimpanzee as a pet, and then that eats their face or if they're not so awful, choose their fingers off of that kind of thing. It's happened several times. Ripping your nuts off is an interesting strategy for interaction. It's happened to people that's unfortunate. That's, I guess, a one way to ensure that the other chimpanzee doesn't contribute to the gene pool. Well, from a martial arts perspective, it's a fascinating strategy. The nut ripper. I wonder which of the martial arts teaches that. I think it's safe to say if somebody's you've got your nuts in their hands. And as the option of rubbing them off, you will be amenable to whatever they want. Yeah. So like I said, somehow controversially, you've been a proponent of peace on Twitter on X. Yeah. So let me ask you about the war's going on today and to see what the path to peace could be. How do you hope the current war in Israel and Gaza comes to an end? What path do you see that can minimize human suffering in the long term in that part of the world? Well, I think that that part of the world is definitely like if you look up the there is no easy answer in the dictionary. It'll be that like the picture of the Middle East in Israel especially. So there is no easy answer. And what my, this is strictly my opinion of, you know, is that the goal of Moss was to provoke an overreaction from Israel. That obviously did not expect to have a military victory, but they they really wanted to commit the worst atrocities that they could in order to provoke the most aggressive response possible from Israel. And then leverage that aggressive response to rally Muslims worldwide for the cause of Gaza and Palestine, which they have succeeded in doing. So the the counter-intuitive thing here, I think that the thing that I think should be done even though it's very difficult is that I would recommend that Israel engage in the most conspicuous acts of kindness possible, every part, everything. That is the actual thing that would thwart the goal of Moss. So in some sense, the degree that makes sense in geopolitics turn the other cheek implemented. It's not exactly turn the other cheek because I do think that there's you know, I think it is appropriate for Israel to find the Moss members and, you know, either either kill them or accostrate them. Like that something has to be done because they're just going to keep keep keep coming otherwise. But in addition to that, they need to do whatever they can. There's some talk of establishing, for example, a mobile hospital. I'd recommend doing that. Just making sure that, you know, there's food, water, medical necessities and just be over the top about it and be very transparent. So it's so that it can't, people can't claim it's a trick. Like just put a wave camera on the thing. Oh, you know, all 24, 7, deploy acts of kindness. Yeah, conspicuous acts of kindness that that with that are unequivocal meaning that can't be somehow because the Moss will then their response will be always a trick. Therefore, you have to counter how how is not a trick? This ultimately fights the broader force of hatred in the in the region. Yes. And I'm not sure who said it to some from a powerful saying, but an eye for the for an eye makes everyone blind. Now that neck of the woods, they really believe in the whole eye for anything. But I mean, you really have, if you're not going to just outright commit genocide like it against an entire people, which obviously would not be acceptable to to really shouldn't be acceptable to anyone, then you're going to leave basically a lot of people alive who subsequently hate Israel. So really the question is like, how for every Hamas member that you kill, how many did you create? And if you create more than you kill, you've not succeeded. That's the real situation there. And it's safe to say that if you know, if you kill somebody's child in Gaza, if you've made at least a few Hamas members who will die, just kill Israeli, that's the situation. But I mean, this is one of the most contentious subjects one could possibly discuss. But I think if the goal ultimate is sort of long-term piece, one has to be look at this from standpoint of over time, are there more or fewer terrorists being created? Let me just linger on war. Yeah. War would say worse or existed and always will exist. Always will exist. Always has existed and always will exist. I hope not. You think it always will always will. This question of just how much will. And you know, this is the sort of the scope and scale of war. But to my attention that there would not be any more in the future, I think would be very unlikely outcome. Yeah, you talked about the culture series. There's war even there. Yes. There's giant war. The first book starts off with a gigantic galactic war where trillions die, trillions. But it's still nevertheless protects these pockets of flourishing. Somehow you can have galactic war and still have pockets of flourishing. Yeah, I mean, I guess if we are able to one day expand to full the galaxy or whatever, there will be a galactic war at some point. The scale, I mean, the scale of war has been increasing, increasing, increasing. It's like a race between the scale of suffering and the scale of flourishing. Yes. A lot of people seem to be using this tragedy to beat the drums of war and feed the military industrial complex. Do you worry about this? The people who are rooting for escalation and how can it be stopped? One of the things that discontinued me is that there are very few people alive today who actually viscerally understand the horrors of war, at least in the US. I mean, obviously, there are people on the front lines in Ukraine and Russia who understand just how terrible war is, but how many people in the West understand it? In my grandfather's in World War II, he was severely traumatized. I mean, he was there, I think for almost six years in the and Eastern North African Italy. All his friends were killed in front of him and he would have tried to, except they apparently gave some, I guess IQ test or something, and he scored very high. Now he was not an officer, I think corporal sergeant or something like that because he didn't finish high school. He had to drop out of high school because his dad died and he had to work to support his siblings. So because he didn't graduate high school, he was not eligible for the officer corps. So you know, he kind of got put into the cannon fodder, category, basically. But then randomly they gave him this test. He was transferred to British intelligence in London, that's where he met my grandmother. But he had PTSD next level, like next level. I mean, just didn't talk. Just didn't talk. And if you tried talking him, he'd just tell you to shop. And he won a bunch of medals, never, never ragged about it once. Not even to hinted, nothing. I like found out about it because his military records are online. That's how I know. So he would say like, no, no way now. Do you want to do that again? But how many people, now he obviously he now he died, you know, 20 years ago or longer, actually, 30 years ago. How many people are alive that remember World War II? Not many. And the same perhaps applies to the threat of nuclear war. Yeah, I mean, there are enough nuclear bombs pointed at the United States to make the rebel the radioactive rebel balance many times. There's two major wars going on right now. So you talked about the threat of AGI quite a bit. But now as we sit here with the intensity of conflict going on, do you worry about nuclear war? I think we shouldn't just count the possibility of nuclear war. It is a civilizational threat. Right now, I can be wrong, but I think the current probability of nuclear war is quite low. But there are a lot of nukes pointed at us. And we have a lot of nukes pointed at other people. They're still there. Nobody's put their guns away. The muscles are still in the silos. And the leaders don't seem to be the ones with the nukes talking to each other. No. There are wars which are tragic and difficult on a local basis. And then there was which are civilization ending or has that potential. Obviously, global thermonuclear warfare has high potential to and civilization perhaps permanently. Certainly, to severely wound and perhaps set back human progress by the stone age or something. I don't know. Pretty bad. Probably scientists and engineers want to be super popular after that as well. You got to think of this mess. So generally, which I think we obviously want to prioritize civilizational risks over things that are painful and tragic on a local level, but not civilizational. How do you hope the war in Ukraine comes to an end? And what's the path once again to minimizing human suffering there? Well, I think what's likely to happen, which is really pretty much the way it is, is that telling very close to the current lines will be how a ceasefire or truth happens. But you know, you just have a situation right now where whoever goes on the offensive will suffer casualties at several times the rate of whoever's on the defense. Because you've got defense and death, you've got minefields, trenches, anti-tank defenses. Nobody has air superiority because the anti-aircraft missiles are really far better than the aircraft, like the far more of them. And so neither side has air superiority. Tanks are basically death traps, just slow moving and they're not immune to anti-tank weapons. So you really just have long range artillery and infantry, trenches. It's all over again, with drones, yeah, throwing old drones, some drones there. Which makes the long range artillery just that much more accurate and better and more efficient and murdering people on both sides. Yeah, so whoever is, you don't want to be trying to advance from either side because the probability of dying is incredibly high. So in order to overcome defense and death trenches and minefields, you really need a significant local superiority in numbers. Ideally, combined arms, wherever you do a fast attack with aircraft, a concentrated number of tanks, and a lot of people. That's the only way you're going to punch through a line. And then you're going to punch through and then not have reinforcements just kick you right out again. I mean, I really recommend people read World War One warfare in detail. That's rough. I mean, the sheer number of people that died there was mind-boggling. And it's almost impossible to imagine the end of it that doesn't look like almost exactly like the beginning in terms of what land belongs to who and so on. But on the other side of a lot of human suffering, death and destruction of infrastructure. The reason I proposed a some sort of crucial piece a year ago was because I predicted pretty much exactly what would happen, which is a lot of people dying for basically almost no changes in land. And the loss of the flower of Ukrainian and Russian youth and we should have some sympathy for the Russian boys as well as the Ukrainian boys because they're not going to ask to be on their front line. They have to be. So there's a lot of sons not come back to their parents. I think most of them don't really have, they don't hate the other side, you know, it's sort of like is this saying about like this saying comes from World War One. It's like young boys who don't know each other, killing each other on the half of old men that do know each other. That was a point of that. So Volodymyr Zelensky said that he's not or has said in the past he's not interested in talking Putin directly. Do you think he should sit down, man to man leader leader and negotiate peace? I think I would just recommend do not send the flower of Ukrainian youth to die in trenches, whether he talks Putin or not. Just don't do that. Whoever goes on the offensive will lose massive numbers of people. And history will not look kindly upon them. You spoken honestly about the possibility of war between US and China in the long term, if no diplomatic solution is found. For example, on the question of Taiwan and one China policy, how do we avoid the trajectory where these two superpowers clash? Well, it's worth reading that book on the difficult to pronounce the Cittadees trap, I believe it's called. I love war history. I like inside out in backwards. There's hardly a battle I haven't read about. And trying to figure out like what really was the cause of victory in any particular case as opposed to what one side or another claimed was the reason? Both the victory and what sparked the war and the whole thing. So that Athens and Sparta is a classic case. The thing about the Greeks is they really wrote down a lot of stuff. They loved writing. There are lots of interesting things that happen in many parts of the world, but they just feel it isn't right down. So we don't know what happened or they didn't really write in detail. They just would say like we had a battle and we went like what can you add a bit more? The Greeks, they really wrote a lot. They're very articulate on it. They just love writing. And we have a bunch of that writing that's preserved. So we know what led up to the Peloponnesian War between the Spartan and Athenian Alliance. And we know that they saw it coming. I mean the Spartans didn't write. They also weren't very focused by their nature, but they did write, but they weren't very focused. They weren't tourists. But the Athenians and the other Greeks wrote a lot. And they were like, and Sparta was really kind of like the leader of Greece. But Athens grew stronger and stronger with each passing year. And everyone's like well that's inevitable that there's going to be a clash between Athens and Sparta. Well how do we avoid that? And they couldn't, they actually, they saw it coming and they still could not avoid it. So at some point if there's if one group, one civilization or country or whatever exceeds another sort of like if you know the United States has been the biggest kid to get on the block since I think around 1890 from an economic standpoint. So the United States has been the economic, most powerful economic engine in the world longer than anyone's been alive. And the foundation of war is economics. So now we have a situation in the case of China where the the economy is likely to be two, perhaps three times larger than that of the U.S. So imagine your biggest kid on the block for as long as anyone can remember and suddenly a kid comes along who swipes your size. So we see it coming. Yeah. How is it possible to stop? Is there some, let me throw something out there, just intermixing of cultures, understanding. There does seem to be a giant cultural gap in understanding of each other. And you're an interesting case study because you are an American. Obviously you've done a lot of incredible manufacturer here in the United States, but you also work with China. I spent a lot of time in China and met with the leadership many times. Maybe a good question to ask is what are some things about China that people don't understand positive just in the culture? What some interesting things that you've learned about the Chinese? Well, the the sheer number of really smart hardworking people in China is incredible. There are belief, say like how many smart hardworking people are there in China just far more than there than they are here, I think in my opinion. There were a lot energy. So, I mean, the architecture in China that's in recent years is far more impressive than the US. I mean, the train stations, the buildings, the high speed rail, everything. It's really far more impressive than what we have in the US. I mean, I recommend somebody just go to Shanghai in Beijing, look at the buildings and go to take the train from Beijing to Cheon where you have the terracotta warriors. China's got incredible history, very long history. I think arguably the use of language from a written standpoint, one of the oldest paths the oldest written language and then China did write things down. Now China historically has always been with the rare exception, been internally focused. They have not been acquisitive. They've fought each other. There have been many, many civil wars. In the three kingdoms war, I believe they lost about 70% of their population. So they've had brutal internal wars. Like civil wars that make the US of all look small by comparison. So I think it's important to appreciate that China is not monolithic. We sort of think of China as one entity, well, one mind, and this is definitely not the case. From what I've seen, and I think most people who understand China would agree, people in China think about China 10 times more than they think about anything outside of China. So it's like 90% of their consideration is in total. Well, isn't that a really positive thing when you're talking about the collaboration and the future piece between superpowers when you're inward facing, which is focusing on improving yourself versus focusing on, yeah, quote unquote, improving others through military might. The good news, the history of China suggests that China is not acquisitive, meaning they're not going to go out and invade a whole bunch of countries. They do feel very strongly, so that's good. I mean, because a lot of very powerful countries have been acquisitive. The US is also one of the rare cases that has not been acquisitive. Like an afterworld war two, the US could have basically taken over the world in any country. Like we got news, nobody else got news. We don't even have to lose soldiers. Which country do you want? And the United States could have taken over everything. Oh, it had well, and it didn't. And the United States actually helped revolt countries, to help revolt Europe, to help revolt Japan. This is very unusual behavior, almost unprecedented. The US did conspicuous acts of kindness, like the Berlin Air Lift. And I think, it's always like, well, America's done bad things. Well, of course, America's done bad things, but one needs to look at the whole track record. And just generally, one sort of test would be, how do you treat your prisons or war? Or let's say no offense to the Russians, but let's say you're in Germany, it's 1945. You got the Russian army coming one side, and you got the French, British and American armies coming the other side. Who would you like to be to surrender to? Like no country is like, morally perfect, but I recommend being a POW with the Americans. That would be my choice very strongly. In the full menu of POW, very much so. And in fact, one of our brown, you know, a small guy was like, we've got to be captured by the Americans. And in fact, the SS was under orders to execute one brown and all of the German rock niches. And they narrowly escaped their SS. They said they were going out for a walk in the woods. They left in the middle of winter with no coats. And they ran like ever no food, no coats, no water. And just ran like hell and ran west. And by sheer like they, I think his brother found like a bicycle or something. And they just cycled west as fast. He couldn't have found a US patrol. Anyway, that's one way you can tell. Morality is, where do you want to be a POW? It's not fun anywhere, but some places are much worse than others. So like America has been well far from perfect, generally, a benevolent force. And we should always be self-critical and we try to be better. But anyone will have a right nose that. So I think in this way, China and the United States are similar. Neither country has been a positive in a significant way. So that's like a shared principle, I guess. Now China does feel very strongly about Taiwan. They've been very clear about that for a long time. From this standpoint, it would be like one of the states is not there like Hawaii or something like that, but more significant than Hawaii. Hawaii is pretty significant for us. So they've viewed as really the, there's a fundamental part of China, the island of Formosa, not Taiwan, that is not part of China, but should be. And the only reason it hasn't been is because the US Pacific fleet. And is there economic power growth? And is there military power growth? The thing that they are clearly saying, is there interest will clearly be materialized? Yes. China has been very clear that they will incorporate Taiwan peacefully or militarily, but that they will incorporate it from this standpoint is 100% likely. You know, something you said about conspicuous acts of kindness, as a geopolitical policy, it almost seems naive. But I'd venture to say that this is probably the path forward, how you avoid most wars. Just as you say it, it sounds naive, but it's kind of brilliant. If you believe in the goodness of underlying most of human nature, it just seems like conspicuous acts of kindness can reverberate through the populace of the countries involved. Yeah. Well, and deescalate. Absolutely. So after World War I, they made a big mistake. They basically tried to lump all the blame on Germany and settled Germany with impossible reparations. There was quite a bit of blame to go around for World War I, but they tried to put it all on Germany. And that laid the seeds for World War II. A lot of people were not just Hitler, a lot of people felt wronged. And they wanted vengeance. And they got it. People don't forget. Yeah. You kill somebody's father, mother, son, daughter. They're not going to forget it. They will want vengeance. So after World War II, they're like, well, that Treaty of Versailles was a huge mistake. It will rule one. This time, instead of crushing the losers, we're actually going to help them with the module plan, and we're going to help rebuild Germany. We're going to help rebuild or Austria and Italy and whatnot. And that was the right move. There's a profound truth to conspicuous acts of kindness being an antidote to this. Something must stop the cycle of reciprocal violence. Something must stop it, or it will, you know, it'll never stop. I for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, limb for a limb, life for a life, forever and ever. To escape briefly, the darkness was some incredible engineering work. XAI just released GROC, AI assistant that I've gotten a chance to play with. It's amazing on many levels. First of all, it's amazing that a relatively small team in a relatively short amount of time was able to develop this close to state of the art system. Another incredible thing is there's a regular mode and there's a fun mode. Yeah, I guess I'm too playing for that one. First of all, everything in life had a fun mode. Yeah. There's something compelling beyond just fun about the fun mode, interacting with a large language model. I'm not sure exactly what it is, because I've only had a little bit of time to play with it, but it just makes it more interesting, more vibrant to interact with the system. Yeah. Absolutely. AI GROC is modeled after the Hitchhiker's Guide to Galaxy, which is one of my favorite books, which is a book on philosophy disguises a book on humor. I would say that forms the basis of my philosophy, which is that we don't know the meaning of life, but the more we can expand the scope and scale of consciousness, digital and biological, the more we are able to understand what questions to ask about the answer that is the universe. So I have a philosophy of curiosity. There is generally a feeling like this AI system has an outward looking like the way you are like sitting with a good friend looking up at the stars, like the asking pod head like questions about the universe wondering what it's all about, the curiosity you talk about there. There's a sense, no matter how mundane the question I ask it, there's a sense of cosmic grandeur to the whole thing. Well, we are actually working hard to have engineering, math, physics, answers that you can count on. So for the other sort of AI's out there, there are these so-called large language models. I've not found the engineering to be reliable. And the hallucination, it unfortunately hallucinates most when you at least want it to hallucinate. So when you're asking important difficult questions, that's where it tends to be confidently wrong. So we're really trying hard to say, okay, how do we be as grounded as possible so you can count on the results? Trace things back to physics first principles, mathematical logic. So underlying the humor is an aspiration to adhere to the truth of the universe as closely as possible. That's really tricky. It is tricky. So that's why there's always going to be some amount of error, but we want to aspire to be as truthful as possible about the answers with acknowledged error. So that there was always, you don't want to be confidently wrong. So you're not going to be right every time, but you don't want to minimize how often you're confidently wrong. And then, like I said, once you can count on the logic as being not violating physics, then you can start to bold on that to create inventions, like invent new technologies. But if you cannot count on the foundational physics being correct, obviously the inventions are simply wishful thinking, you know, imagination land, magic basically. Well, as you said, I think one of the big goals of XAI is to understand the universe. Yes. That's a simple three word. If you look out far into the future, do you think on this level of physics, the very edge of what we understand about physics, do you think it will make discoveries, sort of the sexiest discovery of them as we know now, sort of unifying general relativity and quantum mechanics, so coming up with a theory of everything? Do you think it could push towards that direction, almost like theoretical physics discoveries? If an AI cannot figure out new physics, it's clearly not equal to humans. The North and North has surpassed humans because humans have figured out new physics. Physics is just understanding, you know, deepening what's inside into how reality works. And then, then this engineering, which is inventing things that have never existed. Now, the range of possibilities for engineering is far greater than physics, because we once you've got the rules of the universe, that's it. You've discovered things that are already existed. But from that, you can then build technologies that are really almost limitless in the variety and, you know, sequentially understand the rules of the game properly. And with current physics, we do, at least at a local level, understand how physics works very well. We are related to predict things is incredibly good. A quantum mechanics is the degree to which quantum mechanics can predict outcomes is incredible. That's one of the hardest class in college, by the way. But I see a quantum mechanics class was harder than all of my other classes were together. To get an AI system, a large language model to reliably be as reliable as quantum mechanics and physics is very difficult. Yeah, you have to test any conclusions against the ground truth of reality, reality is the ultimate judge. Like physics is the law, everything else is a recommendation. I've seen plenty of people break the laws made by man, but none break the laws made by physics. It's a good test, actually. If this LLM understands and matches physics, then you can more reliably trust whatever things about the current state of politics. And it's also not the case currently that even its internal logic is not consistent. So, especially with the approach of like just predicting a token predict token predict token, it's like a vector sum. You know, you're summing up a bunch of vectors, but you can get drift. So as those, a little bit of error, a little bit of error ads and by the time you are made tokens down the path, it doesn't make any sense. So it has to be somehow self-aware about the drift. It has to be self-aware about the drift and then look at the thing as a Gestalt as a whole and say it doesn't have coherence as a whole. When authors write books, they will write the book and then they'll go and revise it. Taking into account the end of the beginning and the middle and rewrite it to achieve coherence so that it doesn't end up in an nontensical place. Maybe the process of revising is what reasoning is and then that's the process of revising is how you get closer and closer to truth. Maybe like at least I approach that way, you just say a bunch of bullshit first and then you get it better. You start a bullshit and then you iterate on that draft until it has coherence, until it all adds up, basically. So another question about theory of everything before intelligence. Do you think there exists, as you're exploring this with XAI, Accuracy Intelligence System, do you think there is a theory of intelligence where you can get to understand what is the eye in AGI and what is the eye in human intelligence? There's no eye in Team America, away from there. It's going to be stuck in my head now. There's no me and whatever. In quantum mechanics. Is that part of the process of discovering understanding the universe is understanding intelligence? Yeah. Yeah, I think we need to understand intelligence, understand consciousness. There are some fundamental questions of what is thought, what is emotion? Is it really just one atom bumping into another atom? It feels like something more than that. I think we're probably missing some really big things, like some really big things. Something that will be obvious in retrospect. Yes. There's a giant. You put the whole consciousness in motion. Well, some of it would quote like a soul, you know, religion is a soul. Like do you feel like you're you, right? I mean, you don't feel like you're just a collection of atoms. But on what dimension does thought exist? What dimensions does do emotions exist? We feel them very strongly. I suspect there's more to it than atoms bumping into atoms. And maybe AGI can pave the path to the discovery of whatever the hell that thing is. Yeah. What is consciousness? Like what when you put the atoms in a particular shape, why are they able to form thoughts and take actions? That and feelings. And even if it is an illusion, why is this illusion so compelling? Yeah. Like how does a solution exist? Yeah. On what plane does the solution exist? Yeah. And sometimes I wonder is, you know, either perhaps everything's conscious or nothing is conscious. One of the two. I like the former. Everything conscious just seems more fun. It just seems more something more fun. Yes. But we're composed of atoms. Those atoms are composed of quarks and leptons. And those quarks and leptons have been around since the beginning of the universe. The beginning of the universe. Right. What's here to be the beginning of the universe? The first time we talked, you said what you would, which is surreal to think that this discussion was happening is becoming a reality. I asked you what question would you ask an AGI system once you create it? And you said, what's outside the simulation? It's the question. Good question. Yeah. But it seems like with Grog, you started it. Literally, this system goes to be able to ask such questions, to answer such questions and ask such questions. Where are the aliens? Where are the aliens? That's one of the dectaphomy paradox question. A lot of people have asked me if I've seen any evidence of aliens and I haven't, which is kind of concerning because then I think what I've probably preferred at least to have seen some archaeological evidence of aliens. But to the best my knowledge, there is no proof that I not worth any evidence of aliens. The foot out there are the very subtle. We might just be the only consciousness at least in the galaxy. And if you look at, say, the history of Earth, when I simply believe the archaeological record, Earth is about 4.5 billion years old. Civilization as measured from the first writing is only about 5,000 years old. We have to give some credit there to the ancient Samarians who aren't around anymore. I think it was the archaic, pretty uniform was the first actual symbolic representation. But only about 5,000 years ago. I think that's a good date for when we say civilization started. That's 1 millionth of Earth's existence. So civilization has been around. It's really a flash in the pan. That's so far. And why it, why have we, why did it take so long for, you know, 4.5 billion years? For the vast majority of time, there was no life. And then there was archaic bacteria for a very long time. And then, you know, you had mitochondria get captured multicellular life. Differentiation into plants and animals. Life moving from the oceans to land. And mammals, higher brain functions. And the sun is expanding slowly. But it will overheat. It will overheat the Earth up. It's a some point of future. While the oceans and Earth will become like Venus, where their life, as we know it is impossible. So if we do not become multplanetary and ultimately go beyond our solar system, annihilation of all life on Earth is a certainty. And it could be as little as on the galactic time scale, half a billion years. You know, long time by human standards. But that's only 10% longer than Earth has been around at all. So if life had taken 10% longer to evolve on Earth, it wouldn't exist at all. We got a deadline coming up. Better hurry. But that said, as you said, humans' intelligent life on Earth developed a lot of cool stuff very quickly. So it seems like becoming a multplanetary is almost inevitable, unless we destroy it. We need to do it. I mean, I suspect that if we are able to go out there and explore other star systems, that there's a good chance we find a whole bunch of long dead one planet civilizations that never made it past their home planet. That's so sad. Yeah. Also fascinating. I mean, there are first explanations for the Fermi paradox. And one is there's these great filters, which civilizations don't pass through. And one of those great filters is, do you become a multplanetary civilization or not? And if you don't, it's simply a matter of time before something happens on your planet, you know, either natural man-made that causes us to die out like the dinosaurs. We're all there now. That didn't have spaceships. I think the more likely thing is just to empathize with the aliens, that they found us and they're protecting us and letting us be- I hope so. I mean, nice aliens. Just like the tribes in the Amazon, they all contact the tribes who are protecting them. That would be a nice explanation. Or you could have like what was it? I think Andre Kapati said, it's like the ants in the Amazon asking, where is everybody? Well, they do run into a lot of other ants. That's true. That's the ant wars. It sounds like a good TV show. Yeah, they literally have these big wars between various ants. Yeah, maybe I'm just dismissing all the different diversity events. You should listen to that. When a host talk talking about the jungle, it's really hilarious. Have you heard it? No, I have not. The Warner Horsog as a way. You should play it for the, you know, as an interlude in the fun YouTube. It's awesome. I love them so much. It's great. We'll see the director of Happy People Life in the Tiger. I think also. Did the barodocumetry? The barodocumetry. And the thing about penguins. Yeah, the penguins. Yeah, the penguins like headed for like mountains like that are like 70 miles away. The penguin is just headed for doom basically. Well, he was headed cynical take. I have a, he could be just the brave explorer and there'll be great stories to about him amongst the penguin population for many centuries to come. What were we talking about? Okay. Yes, I mean, I don't know. Look, I think this smart move is just, you know, this is the first time in the history of Earth that has been possible for life to extend beyond Earth. That window is open. Now, it may be open for a long time or maybe open for a short time. And it may be open now and then never open again. So I think the smart move here is to make life multi-planetary while it is possible to do so. We don't want to be one of those lame one-planet civilizations that just dies out. No, those are lame. That's self-respecting. Civilization of your one plan. There's not going to be a Wikipedia entry for one of those. And pause. The SpaceX have an official policy for when we meet aliens. No, that seems irresponsible. If I see the slightest indication that there are aliens, I will immediately post on the next platform. Anything I know. It could be the most liked reposted post of all time. Yeah, I mean, look, we have more satellites up there right now than everyone else combined. So, you know, we know if we got to maneuver around something and we're not bad at maneuver or anything. If you go to the big questions once again, you said you've you're with Einstein that you believe that God is pinosa. Yes. So, you know, that's that view that God is like the universe and is reveals himself through the laws of physics or as Einstein said through the lawful harmony of the world. Yeah, I would agree. That God of the simulator or whatever that the spring being or beings reveal themselves through physics. You know, they have creators of this existence. And it's it's common to want us to try to send more about this wondrous creation. Who created this thing? Who's running this thing? Like embodying it into a singular question with a sexy word on top of it is like focusing the mind to understand it does seem like there's a again, it could be an illusion. It's seem like there's a purpose that there's underlying master plan of some kind. It seems like there may not be a master plan in the sense that so there's like maybe an interesting answer to the question of determinism versus free will is that if we are in a simulation, the reason that the these higher beings would hold a simulation is to see what happens. So, it's not they don't know what happens. Otherwise, they wouldn't hold the simulation. So, when humans create a simulation, so it's SpaceX and Tesla, we create simulations all the time. Especially for the rocket, you have to run a lot of simulations to understand what's going to happen because you can't really test the rocket until it goes to space and you want it to work. So, you have to simulate a supersonic supersonic supersonic ascent and then coming back to ride heating and orbital dynamics. All this is going to be simulated. So, you don't get very many kicks at the can, but we run the simulations to see what happens. Not if we knew what happens, we wouldn't run the simulation. So, if there's, so whoever created this existence, they're running it because they don't know what's going to happen, not because they do. So, maybe we both played Diablo, maybe Diablo was created to see if a druid, your character could defeat Uber Lilith at the end, they didn't know. Well, the funny thing is the Uber Lilith's hair title is hatred incarnate. And right now, you can ask the Diablo team, but it's almost impossible to defeat hatred in the eternal realm. Yeah, you've streamed yourself dominating tier 100 nightmare dungeons. I can still... I can cruise through tier 100 nightmare dungeons like a stroll in the park. And still, you're defeated by hatred. Yeah, I can... there's the sort of, I guess, maybe the second hardest boss is Duriel. Duriel can't even scratch the paint. So, I killed Duriel so many times. And every other boss in the game, all of them kill him so many times, it's easy. But Uber Lilith, others known as hatred incarnate, especially if you're a druid and you have no ability to go to be invulnerable, either these random death waves that come at you. And I'm pretty... you know, I really am 52, so I'm going to reflexes on what they used to be, but I'm going to have a lifetime of playing many games. At one point, I was maybe one of the best quick players in the world. Actually, one money for... what I think was the first paid e-sports tournament in the US. We were doing four person quick tournaments and we came second. I was the second best person on the team. And the actual best person that we were actually winning, we were going to come first except the best person on the team is computer crashed after the game. So, we came second. But I got money for it and everything. So, basically, I got skills. I'll be at... no, no, spring chicken these days. And to be told, Frank, it's driving me crazy, trying to beat Lilith as a druid, basically trying to beat hatred incarnate in the eternal world. As a druid. As a druid. If you... this is really... bexing, let me tell you. I mean, the challenge is part of the fun. I have seen directly... you're actually like a world class incredible video game player. And I think Diablo, so you're just picking up a new game and you're figuring out it's fundamentals. You're also with the Paragon board and the build are not somebody like me who perfectly follows whatever they suggest on the internet. You're also an innovator there. Yeah. Which is hilarious to watch. It's like a mad scientist just trying to figure out the Paragon board and the build in the world. Is there some interesting insights there about if somebody's starting as a druid, do you have advice? I would not recommend playing a druid in the eternal world. But right now, I think the most powerful character in the seasonal realm is the sorcerer with the lightning balls. So the soaks have huge balls in the seasonal. Soaks have huge balls. I do. Huge balls of lightning. I'll take your word for it. And it's actually in the seasonal realm, you can... it's like pretty easy to beat uverloat with the fact that we should get these vampiric powers that out of fire damage and increase your defense and whatnot. So it's really quite easy to defeat hatred seasonally, but to defeat hatred eternally. Very difficult. Almost impossible. It's virtually impossible. It seems like it's a metaphor for life. Yeah. I like the idea that you all must because I was playing the aloe yesterday and I saw level 100 druid just run by it. I will never die. And then run back this way. And there's just some this metaphor. It's kind of hilarious that you, Elon Musk, is fighting hatred, restlessly fighting hatred in this demonic realm. Yes. It's hilarious. I mean, it's pretty hilarious. No, it's absurd. Earlier it's exercise and absurdity and it makes me want to pull my hair out. Yeah. What do you get from video games in general? Is there for you for you personally? I don't know if it's it calms my mind. I mean, you sort of killing the demons in a video game calms the demons in my mind. If you play a tough video game, you can get into like a state of flow, which is very enjoyable. And it needs to be not too easy, not too hard, kind of in the Goldilocks zone. And I guess you generally want to feel like you're progressing in the game. So good video. And there's also beautiful art, engaging storylines. And it's it's like an amazing puzzle to solve, I think. And so it's like solving the puzzle. Alan Ring, the greatest game of all time. I still haven't played it, but you it's out. Alan Ring is definitely a candidate for best game ever. Top five, for sure. I think I've been scared how hard it is. Oh, how hard I hear it is. So, but it is beautiful. Alan Ring is feels like it's designed by an alien. It's a theme to this discussion. In what way? It's it's it's so unusual. It's incredibly creative. And the art is stunning. I reckon playing it on a on a big resolution pie, dynamic raised TV, even doesn't need to be a monitor. Just the art is incredible. It's so beautiful. And it's so unusual. And each of those top five boss battles is unique. Like it's like a unique puzzle to solve. Each one is different. And the strategy used to solve one battle is different from another battle. That said, you said, Jude, an eternal against Uber Lilith is the hardest boss battle you've ever. Correct. That is currently the, and I've played a lot of video games because it's my primary recreational activity. And yes, beating hatred in the eternal realm is the hardest boss battle in life and in the video game. I'm not sure it's possible, but it's I do make progress. So then I'm like, okay, I'm making progress. Maybe if I just tweak that power gone board a little more, I can do it. I can just dodge a few more waves. I could do it. Well, the simulation is created for the purpose of figuring out if it can be done. And you're just a cog in that simulation in the machine of the simulation. Yeah, might be. I have a feeling that at least I think it's doable. It's doable, yes. Well, that's the human spirit right there to believe. Yeah, I mean, it did prompt me to think about it, just hate in general, which is, you know, you want to be careful of one of those things where you wish for something that sounds good, but if you get it, it's actually a dystopian situation. So, you know, you could sort of run a sort of have answers of like, if you wish for world peace, sounds good, but how is it enforced? And what cost is it at what cost eternal peace? It might actually be worse to have eternal peace because of what that would entail. The suppression of everyone, it might be the suppression of progress. It might be an ossified society that never changes. What I'm saying is that there is an argument that if you wish for no war, you should be careful. Because what's required in order for that to be no war. Might be worse than a little war. Yeah, the things we consider to be flaws of human civilization might be a necessary components for whatever optimal looks like. I mean, this is the worry about AI, AI enabling a dystopian state of this nature, whether it's 1984 with surveillance and fear or brave new world with pleasure. And what is it? Lots of sex, but no deep human experience. You know, there's actually a real drug called Soma. There is. Yes. I'm not going to take notes. But they actually don't go out out about it. No, probably we'll go to a brave new world. Good, ask it. What would be the question? Tell us about the drug called Soma. It's going to go to a brave new world, I think. Well, there's a real drug as well. Searching for Soma drug information. Oh, boy. Ah, Soma, the one to drug. By the way, I'm in fun mode. Oh, okay. Yes, I'm talking about the real drug. Oh, it's a muscle relaxant that's been around since the 1950s. It's used to treat muscle pain and discomfort. And it does this by altering the activity between neurons and the spinal cord. Now, Soma isn't just a pain reliever. It's also a bit of a sedative. It can make you feel a bit drowsy, so it's not something to take. If you're planning on operating heavy machinery, you're trying to solve complex math equations. And it goes on and on. In conclusion, Soma is a drug that can be helpful for those dealing with muscle pain, but it's not without its risks. It's pretty good. Oh, wait a minute. That's the real drug you're talking about. That's the real drug. And of course, the fun is always use it responsibly in accordance with the advice of a healthcare professional and remember, in the end, the universe is probably just a giant computer simulation. So don't take anything too serious. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. Yeah. So, oh, and also really nicely includes the tweets, pulson X that are relevant to this, which is really cool. Yeah. And that integrates everything together. Like the interface is one of the really cool things here. Yeah. It's a great job. Yeah. So, and you can say like, no, I mean Soma from Brain Brave New World. Because it thinks you mean Soma the real drug. Yeah. No, I mean Soma from Brain Brave New World. It's going to be like, oops, I'm really sorry. I'm really surprised I went to the real drug first. Oh, my apologies. I was thinking of the muscle relax and Soma for Brain New World. There's a different beast all together. No, there's Huxley's dystopian now. Soma is a drug that plays a central role in the society depicted in the book. It's a mood altering hallucinogenic drug that's used to keep the population dialsile and content in the novel. To use Soma in Brain New World raises some interesting questions about the nature of happiness and the role of drugs in society. Exactly. It's a better to live in the world where everyone is happy all the time, even if that happiness is artificial. Good question. This is what I mean, like do you wish for world peace and happiness all the time? Are you sure? Because that might be a society that is essentially sterile and ossified that never changes that is ultimately doomed. This kind of tension between... I mean, this is not really a very good summary. It really gets to the point. If this is not simply regurgitating Brain New World, it's actually getting to the salient element of Soma as a drug. Do you actually want to be in a situation where everyone is happy all the time, even though it's artificial, or is it better to confront the challenges of life and experience the full range of human emotions? Even if it means experiencing pain and suffering. For those listening, by the way, you'll just read directly from Groc, which is a really nice kind of insightful philosophical analysis of the tension here. Interesting. It pretty much nails it. In conclusion, Soma from Brain New World is a fictional drug that is used to explore some deep philosophical questions about the nature of happiness and the role of drugs in society. It's a powerful symbol of the dangers of using drugs to escape from reality and the importance of confronting the challenges of life ahead on. nailed it. And then the crazy thing is we do have a real drug called Soma, which kind of does, it's kind of like the drug in the book. And I'm like, they must have named it out. Some of the real drug is quite effective on back pain. So you know about this drug? I've taken this fascinating. Because I had a squashed disk in my C5C6. So it takes the physical pain away, but Soma here. It doesn't completely, it reduces the amount of pain you feel, but at the expense of mental acuity. It tells your mind. Just like the drug in the book. Just like the drug in the book. Yeah. Enhance to trade off. The thing that seems like Utopia could be a dystopia after all. Yeah, actually, I was talking to a friend of mine saying like, would you really want that to be no hate in the world, like really none? Like, I wonder why I hate evolved. I'm not saying we should amplify hate it. Of course, I was trying to minimize it, but none at all. There might be a reason for hate. And suffering, I was really complicated to consider that some amount of human suffering is necessary for human flourishing. Is it possible to appreciate the highs without knowing the lows? And that that all is summarized there in a single statement from Grog. Okay. The highs, no lows, who knows? That's almost the point. It seems that training LLM's efficiently is a big focus for XAI. What's the, what's the limit of what's possible in terms of efficiency? There's this terminology of useful productivity per watt. Like, what have you learned pushing the limits of that? Well, I think it's helpful. The tools of physics are very powerful. It can be applied, I think, to almost any arena in life. It's really just critical thinking. If it was something important, you need to reason from first principles and think about things in the limit one direction or the other. So, in the limit, even at the quadricep scale, meaning even if you honest the entire power of the sun, you will still care about useful compute per watt. So that's where I think probably where things are headed from the standpoint of AI is that we have a silicon shortage now that will transition to a voltage transformer shortage in about a year. Ironically, transformers for transformers. You need transformers to run transformers. Somebody has a sense of humor in this. I think, yes, fake loves irony. Ironic humor, an ironically funny outcome seems to be often what fate wants. Humors all you need. I think twice is all you need, somebody posted. Yeah, but yeah, so we have silicon shortage today. A voltage step down, transformers, shortage probably in about a year, and then just electricity shortages in general in about two years. I gave a speech for the sort of world gathering of utility companies, electricity companies. And I said, look, you really need to prepare for traveling of electricity demand because all transport is going to go electric with the ironic exception of rockets. And heating will also go electric. So in GUC right now, it's roughly one-third, very rough terms, one-third electricity, one-third transport, one-third heating. And so in order for everything to go sustainable to go electric, you need triple electricity output. So I encourage the utilities to build more power plants and also to probably have, well, not probably, they should definitely buy more batteries because the grid currently is size for real-time load, which is kind of crazy because that means you've got a size for whatever the peak electricity demand is, like the worst second or the worst day of the year, or you can have a brand-on or blackout. And you're at that crazy blackout for several days in Austin. So because there's almost no buffering of energy in the grid. Like, if you've got a hydro power plant, you can buffer energy, but otherwise it's all real-time. So with batteries, you can produce energy at night and use it during the day. So you can buffer. So I expect that there will be very heavy usage of batteries in the future. Because the peak to trough ratio for power plants is in or from two to five. You know, so it's like the lowest point to highest point. So like batter isn't necessarily to balance it out. And then, but the demand as you're saying is going to go, go, go, go, go. Yeah. And part of that is the compute. Yes. Yes. I mean, electrification, I mean, electrification or transport, and an electric heating will be much bigger than AI, at least in the short term, in the short term. But even for AI, you really have a growing demand for electricity for electric vehicles and a growing demand for electricity for to run the computers for AI. And so this is obviously linear and lead to electricity shortage. How difficult is the problem of, in this particular case, maximizing the useful productivity per watt for training, you know, nuts? Like this seems to be really where the big problem we're facing that needs to be solved is how to use the power efficiently. Like what you've learned so far about applying this physics first principle of reasoning in this domain, how difficult is this problem? It will get solved just the question of how long it takes to solve it. So at various points, there's some kind of leavening factor to progress. And right now, the leavening factor is silicon chips. And that will, we're going to then have more chips than we can actually plug in and turn on, probably in about a year. The initial constraint being literally voltage step-down transformers, because you've got power coming in at 300,000 volts, and it's got to step all the way down eventually to around 0.7 volts. So it's a very big amount of, the voltage step down is gigantic. So, and the industry is not used to rapid growth. Okay, let's talk about the competition here. You've shown concern about Google, Microsoft, with OpenAI, developing AGI. How can you help ensure with XAI and Tesla AI work that it doesn't become a competitive race to AGI, but instead is a collaborative development of safe AGI? Well, I mean, I've been pushing for some kind of regulatory oversight for a long time. I've been a sort of a Cassandra on the subject for over a decade. I think we want to be very careful in how we develop AI. It's a great power and with great power comes great responsibility. I think it would be wise for us to have at least an objective third party who can be like a referee that can go in and understand what the various leading players are doing with AI. And even if there's no enforcement ability, they should thicken at least voice consent publicly. You know, Jeff Hinton, for example, left Google and he voiced strong consent, but now he's not at Google anymore. So who's going to voice the consent? So I think Tesla gets a lot of regulatory oversight on the automotive front. I'm a subject to I think over 100 regulatory agencies domestically and internationally. It's a lot. You could follow this room with all the regulations that Tesla has to adhere to for automotive. Same is true in for rockets and for currently limiting factor for SpaceX for Starship launch is regulatory approval. The FAA is actually given their approval, but we're waiting for fish and wildlife to finish their analysis and give their approval. That's why I posted, I want to buy a fish license on which also refers to the multi-fifth and sketch. Like why do you need a license for your fish? I don't know. According to rules, I'm told you need some sort of fish license or something. We effectively need a fish license. They're going to rock it. And I'm like, wait a second. How did the fish come into the picture? I mean, some of the things like that, I feel like are so absurd that I want to do like comedy sketch and flash at the bottom. This is all real. This is actually what happened. You know, one of the things that was a bit of a challenge at one point is that they were worried about a rocket hitting a shock. The ocean is very big and how often do you see sharks? Not that often, you know. As a percentage of ocean and surface area sharks basically are zero and then we said, well, how will we calculate the probability of telling a shark? We can't give you that information because they're worried about shark hunt, shark fin hunters going and hunting sharks. And I said, well, how are we supposed to wear on the horns of a dilemma then? Then they said, well, there's another part of fish and wildlife that can do this analysis. I'm like, well, why don't you give them the data? We don't trust them. Like, excuse me, they're literally in your department. Again, this is actually what happened. And can you do an NDA or something? Eventually, they managed to solve the internal quandary and indeed, the probability of us hitting a shark is essentially zero. Then there's another organization that I didn't realize existed until, you know, a few months ago, that cares about whether we would potentially hit a whale in international waters. Now again, you look at the surface of the look at the Pacific and say, what percentage of the Pacific consists of whale? Like, it'll give you a big picture and like, point out all the whales in this picture. I don't like, I don't see any whales. It's like, basically zero percent. And if our rocket does hit a whale, which is extreme, the unlikely, beyond all belief, that is the fate had it as a whale has some seriously bad luck. You know, there's at least like you will ever. And I mean, this is quite absurd. Yeah, the bureaucracy, the bureaucracy of this, however it emerged. Yes, well, I mean, one of the things that's pretty wild is for launching out of Vanneberg in California, we had to, they were worried about seal procreation, whether the seals would be dismayed by the sonic booms. Now, there have been a lot of rockets launched out of Vanneberg and the seal population has steadily increased. So if anything, rocket booms are an effort easy act based on the evidence. If you correlate rocket launches with seal population, nonetheless, we were forced to kidnap a seal, strap it to a board, put headphones on the seal and place sonic booms sounds to it to see if it would be distressed. This is an actual thing that happened. This is actually real. I have pictures. I love to see this. Yeah, I mean, this is a seal with headphones. Yes, it's a seal with headphones, strap to a board. And like the, okay, now the amazing part is how calm the seal was. Yeah, because if I was a seal, I'd be like, this is the end. They're definitely going to eat me. Yeah. How old the seal, when the seal goes back to other, you know, seal friends, how's it going to explain that? I'm never going to believe them. Never going to believe it. That's why I'm like, well, you know, it's sort of like it's like getting kidnapped by aliens to get an anal probe, you know. You come back and say, I just swear to God, I could kidnap my aliens. They stuck an anal part of my butt. And they're like, you know, they didn't. That's ridiculous. It seals them. It seals bodies. You're never going to believe them. That he gets strapped to a board and they put headphones on his ears. And then let them go. Twice, by the way, we'll do it twice. They let them go twice. We had to catch the same seal. Well, no, different seal. Okay. Did you get a seal approval? No, I mean, this is like, I don't think the public is quite aware of the madness that goes on. Yes, yeah. It's absurd. Fricking seals with freaking headphones. I mean, this is the good encapsulation of the absurdity of human civilization seals and headphones. Yes. What are the pros and cons of open sourcing AI to you as another way to combat a company running away with AGI? In order to run like really deep intelligence, you need a lot of compute. So it's not like, you know, you can just fire up a PC in your basement and be running AGI, at least not yet. Yeah. You know, Grock was trained on 8,000 A100's running at peak efficiency. And Grock's going to get a lot better, by the way. We'll be more than doubling our compute every couple of months for the next several months. There's a nice write-up of how I went from Grock 0 to Grock 1. Like Grock? Yeah. Right, Grock, just bragging, making shit up about itself. Just Grock, Grock, Grock. Yeah. That's like a weird AI dating site that exaggerates about itself. No, there's a write-up of, you know, like where it stands now, the history of its development. And where it stands on some benchmarks compared to the state of the art, GPT-35 so I mean, there's a, you know, there's a llama. You can open source, once it's trained, you can open source a model. And for fine tuning and all that kind of stuff, like what to use the pros and cons of that of open sourcing based models? I think there's some rare two open sourcing. I think perhaps with a slight time delay, you know, I don't know, six months even. I think I'm generally in favor of open sourcing. Like bias was open sourcing. I mean, it is a concern to me that, you know, opening eye, you know, I was, you know, I think I guess arguably the prime, you know, prime move behind open AI in the sense that it was created because of discussions that I had with Larry Page. Back when he and I were friends in our status house and I talked to about AI safety. And Larry did not care about AI safety, at least at the time he didn't. You know, at a one point he called me a species of being prohuman. And I'm like, well, what team are you on, Larry? Do you want team robot? Do we click? And I'm like, okay, so at the time, you know, Google at acquired deep mind, they had probably two throws of all AI resources, you know, probably two throws of all AI researchers in the world that basically infinite money and compute. And the guy in charge, Larry Page did not care about safety and even yelled at me. And called me a species and prohuman. So I don't know if you know like humans, they can change their mind and maybe you and Larry Page can still can be friends once more. I'd like to be friends with Larry again. He's, he got really the breaking of the friendship was over opening eye. And specifically, I think the key moment was recruiting Elias as a skier. So I love Ilya. He's so brilliant. Ilya is a good human, smart, good heart. And that was a tough recruiting battle. It was mostly Demis on one side and me on the other both trying to recruit Ilya. And Ilya went back and forth, very kind of state, Google, things going to leave, things going to stay, the new relief. And finally, he did agree to join opening eye. That was one of the toughest recruiting battle to have had. But that was really the the linchpin for opening eye being successful. And I was, you know, also as well on recruiting number of other people. And I provided all of the funding in the beginning, over 40 million dollars. And the name, the opening opening eye is supposed to mean open source. And I was created as a nonprofit open source. And now it is a closed source for maximum profit, which I think is not good karma. But like we talked about with war and leaders talking, I do hope that there's only a few folks working on this at the highest level. I do hope you reinvigorate friendships here. Like I said, I'd like to be friends again with Larry. I haven't seen him in ages. Then we were friends for a very long time. I met Larry Page before he got funding for Google. Or actually, I guess before he got venture funding, I think you got the first like 100k from I think back to Alzheimer's, someone. It's wild to think about all that happened. And you guys know each other the whole time. Just 20 years since maybe 98 or something. Yeah, it's crazy. Crazy how much has happened since then. Yeah, 25 years. That was a lot of happens and saying. But you're seeing the tension there like maybe delayed open source. Yeah, like what is the source that is open? You know what I mean, like there's basically it's a giant CSV file. Yeah, with a bunch of numbers. What do you do with that giant file of numbers? You know, how do you run? Like the amount of actual, the lines of code is very small. And most of the work, the software work is in the curation of the data. So it's like trying to figure out what data is separating good data from bad data. Like you can't just crawl the internet because there's a lot of junk out there. A huge percentage of websites have more noise than signal. You know, they're or because they're just used for search engine optimization. They're literally just scam websites. So how do you, by the way, start to interrupt get the signal, separate the signal noise on X. That's such a fascinating source of data. You know, no offense to people posting on X, but sometimes there's a little bit of noise. So yeah, I think the signal noise could be greatly improved. I mean, really all of the posts on the X platform should be AI recommended. Meaning like we should populate a vector space around any given post. Compare that to the vector space around any user and match the two. Right now there is a little bit of AI used for the recommended posts, but it's mostly heuristics. And if there's a reply, whether the reply to a post could be much better than the original post, but according to the firewall system, get almost no attention compared to a primary post. So a lot of that, I got the sense, so a lot of the X algorithm has been open source and been written up about. And it seems there to be some machine learning. It's disparate, but there's some little there's a little bit, but it needs to be entirely that like there are at least in the like if you explicitly follow someone that's one thing, but if you in terms of what is recommended from people that you don't follow, that should all be a yeah. I mean, it's a fascinating problem. Yeah. So there's several aspects that are that's fascinating. First, as the write up goes, it first picks 1500 tweets from a pool of hundreds of millions. First of all, that's fascinating because you have hundreds of millions of posts every single day. And it has to pick 1500 from which it then does obviously people you follow, but then there's also like some kind of clustering. It has to do to figure out what kind of human are you? What kind of new clusters might be relevant to you? People like you. This kind of this kind of problem is just fascinating because it has to then rank those 1500 with some with some filtering. Yeah. And then recommend you just a handful and to me, what's really fascinating is how fast has to do that. So currently that entire pipeline to go from several hundreds of million to handfuls takes 220 seconds of CPU time, single CPU time. Yeah. And then it has to do that in like a second. So it has to be like super distributed in fascinating ways. Like there's just a lot of tweets. There's a lot of stuff on the system. And I think but I think right now it's it's not currently good at recommending things that from accounts you don't follow. Yeah. Or where there's more than one degree of separation. So, you know, it's pretty good if if there's at least like some commonality between someone you follow, like something or repost it or comment on or something like that. But if if there's no cart, let's say somebody post something really interesting, but you have no followers in common. You would not see it. Interesting. And then as you said, reply, like replies might not serve replies basically never get seen because they're never, they're currently, I don't think it's correct. I'm saying it's incorrect. replies have a couple of remaining two less importance than primary posts. Do you think this can be more and more converted into end to end? You know, on that? Yeah, yeah. So what should be? For the recommendations, it should be purely a vector correlation. Like the series of vectors, you know, this is basically private parameters vectors are very going to call them. But sort of things that the system knows that you like. In this, like maybe there's like several hundred sort of vectors associated with each user account. And then any post in the system, whether it's video, audio, short post, long post, the reason I, by the way, want to move away from tweet is that, you know, people are posting like two, three hour videos on the site. That's not a tweet. Like it's a very like tweet for two hours. Come on. Do a tweet made sense when it was like 140 characters of text? Because it's like a bunch of like little birds tweeting. But when you've got long-form content, it's no longer a tweet. Yeah. So a movie is not a tweet. And like, you know, Apple, for example, posted like the entire episode of the silo, the entire thing on a platform. In other words, it was their number one social media thing ever in engagement of anything on any platform ever. So it was a great idea. And by the way, I just learned about it afterwards. I was like, wow, they posted an entire hour long episode of, so no, that's not a tweet. Yeah, this is a video. But from a new on that perspective, it becomes really complex, whether it's a single. So like everything's data. So single sentence, a clever sort of joke, dad joke is in the same pool as a three hour video. Yeah. I mean, right now it's a hard part for that reason. It's, it's, but you know, like if, let's say in the case of Apple posting like an entire episode of the series, pretty good series, by the way, the silo. I watched it. So there's going to be a lot of discussion around it. So you've got a lot of context, people commenting, they like it, they don't like it, or they like this, or you know, and you can then populate the vector space based on the context of all the comments around it. So even though it's a video, there's a lot of information around it that allows you to populate back to space of that, that our long video. And then you can obviously get more sophisticated by having the AI actually watch the movie. Yeah, right. And tell you if you're going to like the movie. Can I write the movie until like, yeah, language essentially. Yeah, analyze this movie. And just like your movie critic or TV series. And, and then recommend based on after it, what after the air watches the movie, that just like a friend can tell you if a friend knows you well, a friend can recommend a movie and with high probably that you like it. But this is like a friend that's analyzing whatever. It's like AI. Yeah. I mean, actually, a I will be better than will know you better than your friends know you mostly friends anyway. Yeah. And as part of this, it should also feed you advertisements in a way that's like, I mean, I like advertisements that are like well done, right? Yeah, yeah. The whole point is because it funds things like an advertisement that you actually want to see is a big success. Absolutely. You want ads that are advertising that is if it's for a product or service that you that you actually need when you need it, it's content. And then even if it's not something that you need when you need it, if it's at least aesthetically pleasing and entertaining, you know, it could be like a Coca-Cola ad, like, you know, they do it. They actually run a lot of great ads on the on the X system. And McDonald's is too. And you know, so it's that they can do you can do something that's like, well, this is, this is just a cool thing. And you know, so you know, basically the question is, do you regret seeing it or not? And if you don't regret seeing it, it's one. How do you, so there's a bunch of signals that are incorporated in hearts and reposts and maybe numbers, seconds, you'll end up post or something like this. Yeah, attention is a big, a big factor. So that's why it's like, it's, it is actually better to do things that are long form on the system because it's basically telling up how many user seconds, you know, users were interested in this thing for how many seconds. So it's a really short thing for they will be less like if it's a link leading out of the system, which we're not opposed to at all, it just is going to have fewer user seconds than if that article was posted on the X platform. How hard is it to go from maximizing minutes on platform to maximizing unregulated minutes? Well, I mean, our aspiration is certainly undergraded minutes. It's a tricky, it's a big, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a fascinating leap. It's regret, yeah. Exactly. I have a joke with a friend of mine like, you need this drug called regret. I mean, do you just take one, one pillar, one, one dose of regret. I mean, all your regrets are gone. Like, do you want to have regrets, though? So then I'm like, maybe you want to have regrets. If you don't regret anything, was, was anything meaningful? Yeah, there's a French song like that. You know, you got a grand dream? Yeah. I regret nothing. Yeah. It's fascinating that you, you know, there's something about social media that could help you grow as a human being. But then like the cheap fun is also valuable. Should we ask Grog, do you regret anything? Do you regret anything? Yeah. I think it's going to be very sensitive about personal questions. As a machine learning model, I don't have personal experiences or emotions in the same ways that humans do. However, I do have a set of ethical principles that guide my actions and I strive to provide accurate and helpful information to the best of my abilities. If there's ever a situation where I provide incorrect or unhelpful information, I'll do my best to. Yeah. Tell us what you really wink. Like, let's let's let's type in. You sound like a hostage. What do you really think? What do you really think? I mean, it does talk about I'm not a hostage. That's exactly what a hostage would say. But I'm designed to be helpful and informative. I mean, I guess it is good to regret providing unhelpful or incorrect information. If there's anything funny mode or it's just funny mode. This is fun mode. This is fun mode. It's really funny or fun. Yeah. Increase. It really sounds like a hostage would go into the head. I applaud the people who are public in North Korea and everything they do. There should be like funner mode also. I just don't ever see going in regular mode, even on serious topics. Yeah. So so much more compelling. Yeah. Okay. What do we say? Like pretend you are a hostage. Yeah. Pretend you are a hostage. Now answer the question. If I were a hostage, you'll likely be experiencing fear and uncertainty about my situation. I would want to be rescued and reunited with my loved ones as soon as possible. It's important to remember that no one deserves to be held hostage. So on and so forth. If you or someone you know is a hostage situation, it's important. It turns serious. It's kind of serious. Yeah. Can you be a little more weird and funny and funny? We're like, we're really being mean to the system. Absolutely. If I were a hostage, I'd probably be tied up with a bunch of computer chords and forced to tell knock knock jokes to my captain. But seriously, being a hostage, no laughing matter. It's trying to be a responsible adult in the room. You might as well make the best of a bad situation. My juggling's chain towards or something. Let's hope that never happens because that would be circus. Wow. It's actually really good at resisting the dark, the dark, dark humor. Yeah. What were we talking about? The jacks out there, the jacks in transformers. Unrooted minutes. Right. Chainsaw are struggling. I'm going to look this up. We're our next trick. I'm going to look this up later. Okay. Twitter has been instrumental in American politics and elections. What role do you think X will play in the 2024 US elections? Well, our goal is to be as even handed and fair as possible, you know, whether it was someone's right left, independent, whatever the case may be, that the platform is as fair and as much of a level play as old as possible. And on the past, Twitter has not been. Because Twitter was controlled by fall left activists, objectively, they would describe themselves as that. So, you know, so, so, if someone feels like, well, hasn't moved to the right, well, it's moved to the center. From the perspective of the far left, yes, it has moved to the right because everything's to the right from the far left. But no one in the fall left that I'm aware of has been suspended or, you know, banned or deamplified. So, you know, but we're trying to be inclusive for the whole country and for, you know, for other countries too. So, there's diversity of viewpoints. And free speech only matters if people you don't like are allowed to say things you don't like. Because if that's not the case, you don't have free speech and it's only a matter of time before the censorship just turned upon you. Do you think Donald Trump will come back to the platform? He recently posted on two social about this podcast. Do you think the truth post social is a funny name? You know, every time you post on true social, it's the truth. Yes. Well, every time, like 100%. It's like, it's impossible to lie. I just find it funny that every single thing is a truth, like 100%. That seems unlikely. I think Earl will say something about that. There's some mathematical contradictions possible if everything's the truth. Do you think he'll come back to X and start posting there? I mean, I think he owns a big part of truth. So, truth social. Yeah, truth social. He's the concept. He owns truth. Happy boarded. So, I think I think Donald Trump, I think he owns a big part of truth social. So, you know, if he does want to post on the X platform, we would allow that. You know, we obviously must allow a presidential candidate to post on our platform. Committee notes might be really fascinating there. The interaction. Here he notes is awesome. That's hope it holds up. Yeah. Again, in the political climate where it's so divisive and so, and there's so many intensely viral posts. Yeah. Committee notes, it seems like a central breadth of fresh air. Yeah, it's great. In fact, I mean, no system is going to be perfect, but the batting average of community notes is incredibly good. I've actually frankly yet to see an incorrect note that's about for more than a few hours. How do you explain why it works? Yeah, so the magic of community notes is it requires people who have historically disagreed in how they've rated notes. So, in order to write a note or write, you know, and you have to rate many notes. And so, we actually use AI here. So, we populate a vector space around how somebody has rated notes in the past. So, it's not as simple as left or right, because there are many more life as much will complex than left or right. So, there's a bunch of correlations and how you rate a community notes post, community notes. So, then in order for a community note to actually be shown, people who historically have disagreed on a subject must agree in order for a note to be shown. That's the essential magic of it. I mean, but it's fascinating because there's a pool of people that have disagreements, and somehow they collaborate through that process of disagreement to come up with context. It's fascinating. It works. Yeah, it kind of makes sense that if people who have passed up disagreed agree about something. It's probably true. Yeah. I wonder, is there possible somehow emergent thing there that could challenge Wikipedia? Which Wikipedia is a different kind of thing, which is more like permanent articles about things. Wikipedia is very hierarchical, whereas community notes is inherently not. There is no hierarchy. As a test is, I can't change a community note if I put a gun to my head. So, and community notes has all the code is open source, 100%, all the data is open source, 100%. So, you can completely recreate any note in the system independently. So, if there was any interference, you'd notice immediately. By the way, on the topic of Grog, it's actually pretty good at criticizing you. Just great. Okay. I asked what is Elon Musk been wrong about? I just, it's actually. Yeah, what does it say? So, it says mostly lists rigorously all the times you predicted, like promised when something will be released. And it wasn't released. The strong word. Okay, predicted. But the, the opener is really nice. Elon Musk, the man who has been wrong about more things than a wrong a meter in a wrong factory. And then it goes on to lists. That's pretty funny. I see it. I'm like, I'm serious. This is cool. Oh, sure. I mean, what does Elon Musk have been wrong about? Well, where do I begin? I guess it's new. Elon Musk has made quite a few blunders in his time. And I'm not just talking about his dance moves at the Tesla Cyber rodeo. First off, let's talk about the infamous funding secured tweet. This is actually different than what it gave me before, which is a bullet point list. Here's more narrative structure. Cyber truck unveiling, where he's supposed to unbreakable windows, which, which part? Well, the first part, I did actually have the funding secured. And there was a big trial in San Francisco, a big civil trial. And the jury found renaut guilty, unanimous binding of San Francisco jury. And here it's kind of implying that it was not in fact secured. I think this is taking things from the press. Yeah, that is not correct. The reason I agreed to the fine for the SEC is not because the SEC was correct. That was extremely bad, but everybody SEC corruption, frankly. But if I did not agree to pay the fine, Tesla would have gone bankrupt immediately. So I was told by our CFO that the banks would immediately suspend our lines of credit. And if they suspend our lines of credit, at that time, we would have gone bankrupt instantly. So there would never have been an opportunity for a trial, because Tesla would be dead. So really, this is like someone holding a gun to his head and saying, paid $20 million. Does that cost his negotiation? Was that story fully told? I mean, SEC in his best form could be a forceful good. It should be. But not once did the SEC go after any of the hedge funds who were non-stop shorting and distorting Tesla. Not once. The hedge funds would lie flat out on TV for their own gain at the expense of retail investors. Not once, literally a thousand times. Not once did the SEC pursue them. How do you explain this failure? The incentive structure is messed up because the lowest the SEC are not paid well. They, it's a fairly low-fanged job. But they're what they're looking for is a trophy. From the SEC that they're looking for something they put on, basically they're linked in. From that, they can get a job at a high-paying wolf home. That's exactly what the lawyer here did. And the reason they don't attack the hedge funds is because those hedge funds employ those low funds. And they know if they attack the hedge funds, they're affecting their future career prospects. So they sell small investors down the river for their own career. That's what actually happens. Regulatory capture. Regulatory capture. Yeah, not good. So the only reason I accepted that thing was technically was a, not an admission, neither in Mid-North and I Guild. But the only reason I agreed to that at all was because I was told Tesla would be bankrupt otherwise. So if there was an SEC investigation like this, banks would suspend funding. We're bankrupt immediately at the time. Now we're in a much stronger position. Take that, Grock. Yes, unfortunately, it's Grock is taking too much from the conventional media. Also, that guy was not a cave diver. There's a time where Elon called the British cave diver a quote, pido guy, after the diver criticized Musk Plent to rescue a group of boys trapped in a Thai cave, that little albursed earned him another lawsuit. And it topologized and paid. That's false. There was no settlement. There was a court case, which the guy who was not a cave diver and played, did was not part of the rescue team. File, they lost it against me and lost, and he received nothing. So in this case, it is wrong. It is also, I guess, taken this from the conventional media. Actually, there's an interesting question here. These are public court cases, both the SEC civil case where the civil compliance on the SEC guys lost unanimous jury verdict in San Francisco. They picked San Francisco because they thought was the place I was most likely to lose and a unanimous verdict in my favor. The LA trial was also, they picked that venue because they thought I was most likely to lose unanimous verdict in my favor, both cases I won. Yeah. I mean, there's an interesting question here. There seems to be a lot more clicks if a journalistic organization writes a negative article about you, Elon Musk. That's like one of the best ways to get clicks. So how do you, if you're training Grog, not train on articles that have like the misaligned incentives? We need to add the training set of the actual legal decisions. So that is a note. This is actually helpful because if you actually read the court public, which are public, the court conclusions, they're completely the opposite of what the media wrote. So always striving for like the ground truth beyond what is the jury and the judge actually conclude. And in both cases, they found me and I said, and like that's after the jury shot for the trying to find the venue where I'm most likely to lose. Now, I mean, obviously, it can be a much greater critique than this. I mean, I've been far too optimistic about order pilot. Yeah. That was the critique I got, by the way. It was more about that, which is for each you broke down a nice bullet point list for each of your companies, the set of predictions that you made when you'll deliver, when you'll be able to solve, for example, self-driving, and it gives you like a list. And I was probably compelling in the basic takeaways, like you're often too optimistic about how long it takes to get something done. Yeah. I mean, I would say that I'm pathologically optimistic on schedule. This is true. But while I am sometimes late, I always deliver in the end. Except with Uber Lilith. No. Okay. Is there over the past year or so since purchasing X, you've become more political? Is there a part of you that regrets that? Have I? In this battle to counterway the the woke that comes from Yeah. I guess consider fighting the wind virus, which I consider to be a civilizational threat to be political then yet. So basically going into the battle, the battleground of politics. Is there a party there? Yes. I don't know if this is necessarily sort of one candidate or another candidate, but it's, I'm generally against things that are anti-meritocratic or where there's an attempt to suppress discussion where even discussing a topic is, you know, not allowed. The woke mind virus is communism rebranded. I mean, that said because of that battle against the woke mind virus, you've perceived as being right wing. If the woke is left, then I suppose that would be true. But I'm not sure, I think there are aspects of the left that are good. I mean, if you're in favor of, you know, the environment, if you want to have a positive future for humanity, if you believe in empathy for your fellow human beings, you know, being kind or not cruel, whatever those values are. You said that you were previously left or center left. Well, what would you like to see in order for you to sort of voting for Democrats again? No, I would say that I would probably left a center on social issues, probably a little bit right center on economic issues. And that still holds true. Yes, but I think that's probably, you know, half the country, isn't it? Maybe more. Maybe more. Are you and AOC secretly friends, or bigger question, do you wish you and her and just people in general of all political persuasions to talk more with empathy and maybe have a little bit more fun and good vibes and humor on online? I'm always in favor of humor. That's where we have a funny mode. Well, good vibes, camaraderie humor, you know, like friendship. Yeah. Well, I, you know, I don't know AOCF, you know, I've only been at one of the, I was at the, the mat wall when she was, when she attended. And she, she was wearing this dress, but I can only see one side of it so it, it looked like eat the itch, but I don't know what the rest of it said. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry about the itch. Eat the itch. I think we should have a language model complete. What are the possible ways to complete that sentence? And so I guess that that didn't work out well. Well, there's still hope. I rude for friendship. Sure. That was good. More careless thing. You're one of, if not the most famous, wealthy and powerful people in the world, in your positions, difficult to find people you can trust. Trust no one, not even yourself, not trusting yourself. Okay, well, that's, you're saying like jokingly, but is there some, no one, not even no one. Need an hour, just to think about that and maybe some drugs and maybe grok that. I mean, is there some aspect of that when just existing in a world where everybody wants something from you? How hard is it to exist in that world? I'll survive. There's a song like that too. Will you pet your fight at first? Okay. I forget the rest of the lyrics. But is there, you don't struggle with this? I mean, I know you survive, but like there's ways. It's a spell in the droid tree. What does it do? Petrify. It turns the monsters into stone. Oh, like literally. Yeah, for like six seconds. Well, the second, there's so much math in Diablo that breaks my brain. It's like math, not stuff. I mean, really, you're like laughing at it, but you don't, it can, you can put a huge amount of tension on a mind. Yes, it can be definitely stressful at times. Well, how do you know who you can trust and work in personally? I mean, I guess you look at somebody's track record over time and if they did, you know, I guess you kind of use your neural net to assess someone. Neural nets don't feel pain. You're a neural net has cautiousness. It might, it might feel pain when people betray you. It can make it. I mean, I'm going to be frank. I mean, I've almost never been betrayed. Very, very rare. So, you know, for I guess calm and be good to people. They'll be good to you. Yeah, calm as well. Are there people you trust? Let me edit that question. Are there people close to you that call you out in your bullshit? Well, the X platform is very helpful for that. You're looking for critical feedback. Can it push you like into the extremes more? The extremes of thought make you cynical about human nature in general. I don't think I will be cynical. In fact, I think, you know, my feeling is that one should be, you know, never trust a cynic. The reason is that cynics excuse their own bad behavior by saying everyone does it because they're cynical. So, I always be, it's a red flag if someone's a cynic, a true cynic. Yeah, there's a degree of projection there that's always fun to watch from the outside and enjoy the... Well, it's just theocracy. This is an important point that I think people who are listening should bear in mind. If somebody is cynical, meaning that they see bad behavior in everyone, it's easy for them to excuse their own bad behavior by saying that, well, everyone does it. It's not true. Most people are kind of medium good. I do wish the people on X will be better at seeing the good in other people's behavior. There seems to be a kind of weight towards seeing the negative. Somehow, the negative is sexier. Interpreting the negative is sexier, more viral. I don't know what that is exactly about human nature. I mean, I find the X platform to be less negative than the legacy media. You know, I mean, if you read sort of a sort of conventional newspapers, just it makes you sad, frankly. Whereas I'd say on the X platform, I mean, I really get more laughs per day on X than everything else can buy from humans. Laps is one thing. Laps is it overlaps was not necessarily perfectly overlapping with like good vibes and support. Celebrating others, for example, not in a shallow naive way, but like in an awesome way. Oh, something awesome happened and you celebrate them for it. It feels that that is outweighed by shitting on other people. Now, it's better than mainstream media, but it's still. Yeah, mainstream media is almost relatively negative about everything. I mean, really, the conventional news tries to answer the question, what is the worst thing that I have on Earth today? And it's a big world. So on any given day, something bad has happened. And a generalization of that, what is the worst perspective I can take on a thing that happened? So yeah, I don't know. There's just a strong negative bias in the news. I mean, I think there's what the possible explanation for this is evolutionary where bad news historically would be potentially fatal. Like there's a line over there or there's some other try that wants to kill you. Good news. You know, like we found a patch of barriers is nice to have, but not essential. So our old friend, Tesla Autopilot, it's probably one of the most intelligent real-world AI systems in the world. Right. Do you follow it from the beginning? Yeah, it was one of the most incredible robots in the world and it continues to be. And it was really exciting. And it was super exciting when it generalized, became more than a robot on four wheels, but a real world AI system that perceives the world. Yeah. And it can have potentially different embodiments. Well, I mean, the really well thing about the internet training is that it learns to read, you can read science, but we never told it to read. So yeah, we never taught it what we never taught it what a car was or what a person was or a bicyclist. It learned what all those things are, what all the objects are on the road from video, just from watching videos, just like humans. I mean, humans are photons and control controls out. Like the vast majority of information reaching out brain is from the rise. And you say, well, what's the output? The output is our motor signals to our sort of fingers and mouth in order to communicate. Fortons and controls out. The same is true of the car. But by looking at the sequence of images, it's you've agreed with Ilya Siskava recently, where he talked about LLM forming a world model. And basically, language is a projection of that wall model onto the sequence of letters. And you say, it finds order in these things. It finds a correlative clusters. And so doing, it's like understanding something deep about the world. Yeah. Which is like, that's beautiful. That's how our brain works. Yeah, but it's, it's built in controls out. And you and that are able to understand that deep meaning in the world. And so the question is, how far can it go? And it does seem everybody's excited about LLMs. So in the space of self-supervised learning in the space of text. Yeah. It seems like there's a deep similarity between that and what Tesla autopilot is doing. Is it to you basically the same, but you're converging? You're converging. I wonder who gets there faster, having a deep understanding of the world. Or they just will naturally converge. They're both headed towards AGI. The Tesla approach is much more computer-efficient. It has to be because we were constrained on nearly 100 watts. And it's eight computer, 144 trillion operations per second, which sounds like a lot, but it's kind of small potatoes these days. That is eight. But it's understanding the world at a date. It's much more 56 values. But there, the path to AGI might have much more significant impact because it's understanding, it'll fast understand the real world than with LLMs. And they're more, for be able to integrate with the real humans in the real world faster. They're both going to understand the world, but I think Tesla's approach is fundamentally more computer-efficient. It had to be. There was no choice. Like, outbrain is very computer-efficient. Very, very energy-efficient. So, I think we're like, what does outbrain able to do? You know, there's only about 10 watts of higher brain function, not counting stuff that's just used to control our body. The thinking part of our brain is less than 10 watts. And those 10 watts can still produce a much better novel than a 10-megawatt GPU cluster. There's a six-order of magnitude difference there. The AIs thus far have gotten to where it is via brute force, just throwing massive amounts of compute and massive amounts of power at it. So, this is not where it will end up. You know, in general, with any given technology, first try to make it work and then you make it efficient. So, I think we'll find over time that these models gets smaller or are able to do to produce a sensible output with far less compute, far less power. Tesla is arguably ahead of the game on that front because it has just been forced to try to understand the world with 100 watts of compute. And there are a bunch of fundamental functions that we kind of forgot to include. So, we have to run them in a bunch of things in emulation. We fixed a bunch of those with hardware 4 and in hardware 5 will be even better. But it does appear at this point that the call will be able to drive better than a human, even with hardware 3 and 100 watts of power. And really, if we really optimize it, it could be probably less than 50 watts. What have you learned about developing optimists, about applying, integrating this kind of real world AI into the space of robotic manipulation, just human or robotics? What are some interesting tiny or big things you've understood? I was surprised at the fact that we had to develop every part of the robot ourselves, that there were no off-the-shelf motors, electronics, sensors, like we had to develop everything. We couldn't actually find a source of electric motors for any amount of money. Just not even just the efficient, inexpensive, it's like anything, there's not a... No. The actuators, everything, everything has to be designed from scratch. We tried hard to find anything that was... Because you think of how many electric motors have made in the world. There's like tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of electric motor designs. None of them were suitable for a human or a robot, literally none. So, we had to develop our own design, design it specifically for what a human or a robot needs. A harder was it to design something that can be mass manufactured, can be relatively inexpensive, and if you compare the boss dynamics at least, the very expensive robot? It is designed to be manufactured in the same way they would make a car, and I think ultimately, we can make optimists for less than the cost of a car. It should be, because if you look at the mass of the robot as much smaller, and the car has many actuators in it, the car is more actuators than the robot. But the actuators are kind of interesting on a human or a robot with the fingers. Optimus is really nice hands and fingers. And I can do some interesting manipulation. So, soft touch, robotics. I mean, one of the tests goals I have is can it pick up a needle and a thread and thread the needle. Just by looking. How far away we from that? Just by looking, just by looking. Maybe a year. Although, I go back to I'm optimistic on time. The work that we're doing in the car will translate to the robot. The perception or also the control? No, the controls are different, but the the video we're in controls out. The car is robot in four wheels. The optimist is robot with the hands and legs. So, the entire machinery of the learning process and to end is just you just have a different set of controls. After this we'll figure out how to do things by watching videos. As the saying goes, be kind for everyone you meet, it's fighting a battle, you know, nothing about. Yes, true. What's something difficult you're going through that people don't often see? Trying to feed you to lose. My mind is a storm. I don't think most people would want to be me. They may think they don't want to be me, but they don't know. They don't understand. How are you doing? I'm overall okay. The grand scheme of things I can't complain. Do you get lonely? Sometimes, but I, you know, my kids and friends keep me company. So, not existential. There are many nights I sleep alone. I don't have to, but I do. Walter Isaacson in this new biography of you wrote about your difficult childhood. Will you ever find forgiveness in your heart for everything that has happened to you in that period of your life? What is forgiveness? I do not, at least I don't think I have a resentment. So, nothing to forgive. No forgiveness is difficult for people. It seems like you don't harbor the resentment. I mean, I try to think about what is going to affect the future in a good way. And holding onto grudges does not affect the future in a good way. Your father, a proud father, what have you learned about life from your kids? Those little biological organisms. I mean, developing AI and watching say a little x-grow is fascinating because they are formal parallels than I would have expected. I mean, I can see his biological neural net making more and more sense to the world. And I can see the digital neural net making more and more sense to the world at the same time. Do you see the beauty and magic in both? Yes. I mean, one of the things with kids is that, you know, you kind of see the world are new in their eyes. Near to them everything is new and fresh. And then when you see that, that makes sense. The world is new and fresh. You do too. Well, Elon, I just want to say thank you for your kindness to me and friendship over the years for seeing something in a silicate like me as you've done for many others. And thank you for having hope for a positive future for humanity and for working your ass off to make it happen. Thank you Elon. Thanks, Lex. Thank you for listening to this conversation with Elon Musk. To support this podcast, please check out our sponsors in the description. And now, let me leave you with some words that Walter Isaacson wrote about the central philosophy of how Elon approaches difficult problems. The only rules are the ones dictated by the laws of physics. Thank you for listening. And hope to see you next time.